**Progress Report of Semester July-Dec 2012**

This semester I worked on structuring my thesis according to what I
have already done and determined what is to be accomplished.
(attached a draft of Abstract) 

We submitted a paper on Power of Friends in OzCHI 2012. The paper got
rejected and we worked on the reviews to improve our paper. I am
attaching a copy of the reviews and the submitted draft. Based on the
reviews, we have extended our study to test our game prototype with
larger number of communities both in size as well as in number. 

For the coming semester, my work plan is as follows: 

+ Analysis of the experimental data collected while testing prototype
  of Power of Friends.  

+ A user study for our proposed ontology based re-narration service to
  Alipi framework is required.  I will conduct the study and will
  report the results in the thesis.  

+ Submission of Power of Friends and Ontology-based re-narration
  service to Alipi framework.  

+ Complete my thesis to include the above-mentioned work.


**Thesis Abstract

With the rapid advancement of communication and computational
technology, the World Wide Web has penetrated (become pervasive) in
our daily lives. As a result, the focus of research in World Wide Web
has slowly started to shift from building systems to understanding
people. Today, research advancements are being thought and made in the
direction of improving and cultivating the lives of individuals using
the technology. One of the defining moments of the Web 1.0 was the
ability to share and search for the content or the information. With
the Web 2.0, we saw a growth in the user-generated content with more
and more users becoming producers of the information rather than being
mere consumers. As a result, the web is now overloaded with
information (user generated content) on diverse topics contributed by
diverse set of contributors. People call such information as
“information bubble”. There lies a key problem of intelligently
extracting the most relevant and accurate information that a
particular person is looking for.  With Web 3.0, we thus envision a
shift from keyword-based search to intelligent personalized search and
modes of discovery. In Web 3.0 based systems, relevant information
will be extracted, filtered and presented in the most suitable format
to the users.  Unfortunately, state-of-the-art automated techniques to
do so are not matured enough to achieve the same level of precision as
the humans would do. Therefore, in order to achieve this broader goal,
active contribution from the humans in the above-mentioned tasks is
also needed.  This thesis is an attempt to harness the collective
intelligence of humans in realizing the goals of Web 3.0. In
particular, we have focused on the following two problems: 1)
Knowledge extraction and validation 2) Web Inaccessibility. To achieve
high system performance for a given problem, we have merged both human
and machine computation at different phases. We have followed a
who-what-how model to determine who(human or machine) performs what
phase of the system and how to accomplish that phase. We tried to
identify which part of the system requires human intelligence to
improve its accuracy and how it should be achieved. Considering the
overall performance of a system, we have accounted both automated
techniques and human efforts and determined appropriate stages of the
system for applying either of them.

1) Knowledge acquisition: Knowledge acquisition deals with the
   extraction and validation of user generated content or relevant
   information to the search engines. This information comprises of
   both community generated and shared knowledge, and objective
   facts. Community knowledge consists of beliefs and facts that are
   learned and shared by individuals within the community. However,
   such knowledge is never explicitly available in plain format and is
   often scattered across the community activities. Moreover, such
   knowledge is highly subjective and varies from community to
   community. On the other hand, objective facts are absolute truth,
   commonly known to everyone and thus they are not affected by human
   perceptions. Existing automated techniques have a limited scope
   because of the dependency issues and do not scale well outside
   their customized settings. We propose a framework called “crowd
   consensus” where we motivate the individual members of the
   community to participate in the extracting and validating tasks. As
   a proof of concept we present an online Friendsourcing game called,
   Power of friends that elicits truthful responses for the community
   related questions from the community members using an intelligent
   game design. Additionally we also propose uPick, an interesting
   game for extracting useful objective facts form the document. We
   designed and tested both the games. Responses from the participants
   were encouraging. Most of the participants appreciated the novelty
   of the designs and were willing to contribute their time by playing
   the game. More than 70% of the facts were correctly identified by
   using our game approaches.

2) Web inaccessibility: Today, despite being the open web platform,
   the web is inaccessible to many individuals who suffer from various
   physical and cognitive disabilities, socio-economic backgrounds and
   language barriers. The goal of “Web for All” movement is to make
   the web accessible to everyone. However, the existing web
   architecture provides very less flexibility and control to the
   users to consume the web according to their needs. For example, a
   Hindi-speaking native of Hyderabad cannot comprehend a relevant
   useful web article written in Telugu because of the language
   barrier. So far it is the responsibility of the content developer
   or the curator to make the articles accessible and understandable
   to everyone. However, in most cases, the content developer may not
   accurately predict the target audience for the authored article in
   advance.  We, therefore, aim to utilize the existing readers of the
   articles to do the re-narration task for other consumers with
   varied abilities. However, motivating them to do the re-narration
   is a challenging task. We utilize a re-narration framework for Web
   called as Alipi that incorporates human contribution to make web
   accessible to everyone by re-narrating different sections of a web
   page. We proposed an ontology based re-narration service to the
   Alipi framework that incorporates user preferences. We also
   developed a Firefox plugin to keep user preferences, which are then
   consulted for every queried page to recommend a best suitable
   re-narration to the user.

We believe, the collaborative power of humans and machines together
can realize the Web 3.0. Leveraging human energy and skills provide
solution to problems that computers cannot accomplish solely.

Keywords: Human computational games, community knowledge, objective
facts, web inaccessibility, re-narration web, ontology based profiles.
